in terminal enter mysql -u root -p and type the password.if you type 'show databases;' then it shows the types of database you have.if you type 'create database new'
then a new database will be created and named new.if you type 'use mysql;' then the server points to the mysql database.in cmd prompt type sqlplus then it will show
the version of the oracle and it ask the username:(system).and password:(k.muthu).and type connect and type your own username and password.if you type disc to
disconnect from the oracle database.and to reconnect to the oracle type conn sys as sysdba and it ask for password(k.muthu).if you want to see the current user the
type show user.


tip:>/ 
then it execute the previous query.

placeholder:like scanf



DDL
1)create
2)Alter
3)Drop
4)truncate--it remove all the data from the table but not remove the structure of the table.it change the metadata.it used to release the memory
5)Rename
(roll back)
all these ddl statement are auto committed.means if you execute these commands it will be commited we will not be able to roll it back.ex:if you drop a table then 
you cannot retriew the table back.

we can classify the sql db in two parts data dictionay and user table.data dictionary used to stores the meta data.means it store more info about the oracle.it is 
system's table.the table must be valid no space no special character and number for starting letter of the table name and it should not be any keyword.
you must have a create table permission and storage area.table will be created in user's schema.DEFAULT keyword is used to set default value for the column.
we can also use normal cmd prompt and also Run sql command line prompt.


#every column value is null as default

#desc tablename means describe the table.
data type(see note diagram)
character data type classification
*char data type(fixed string size)
*varchar2 data type(variable string size)
*varchar data type
*nchar (native fixed string size)
*nvarchar2 (native variable string size)
*long and long raw


char 
this data type stores the string value and the size of the string is fixed at the time of declairing the variable.ex:grand char;manager char(10):='guru99';in first
statement the size is 1 byte(default value).the second declaration max size will be 10 and the 'guru99' is 6 byte.oracle will allocate the memory of 10 bytes rather
then 6 bytes in this case.the size restriction for this data type is 1-2000 bytes.oracle would be blank-padded the variable if the variable didn't occupy the entire
size that has been declaird size even if the variable didn't occupy it fully.


varchar2
this data type stores the string,but the length of the string is not fixed.ex:manage varchar2(10):='guru99'.manage of varchar2 data type with the maxium size of 10 
and assigned the value 'guru99' which is of 6 bytes.oracle will allocate memory of only 6 bytes in the case.the size restriction for this data type is 1-4000 byte 
for table column size and 1-32767 bytes for variables.the size is defined for each variable at the time of variable declaration.but oracle will allocate memory only
after the variable is defined.i.e., oracle will consider only the acatual length of the string that has been given for a variable in the declaration part.It is 
always good to use varchar2 instead of char data type to optimize the memory usage.


varchar
it is synonymous with the varchar2 data type.ex:manager varchar(10):='guru99'.the above declaration statement declared the variable 'manager' of varchar data type
with the maximum size of 10 and assigned the value 'guru99' which is of 6 bytes.oracle will allocate memory of only 6 bytes in this case(similar to varchar2).it is
always a good practice to use varchar2 instead of varchar to avoid behavioural changes.

different between varchar and varchar2:
in varchar there is a different between NULL and empty string.but in varchar2 there is no different between NULL and empty string.currently varchar behaves exactly 
the same as varchar2.However this type should not be used as it is reserved for future usage.

different among nchar,nvarchar and other
*nchar and nvarchar can store unicode characters.(unicode is the international standard set of character in various languages.now it have nearly 1,00,000 character)
*char and varchar cannot store unicode characters.
*char and nchar are fixed length which will reserve storage space for number of characters you specify even if you don't use up all that space.
*varchar and nvarchar are variable-length which will olny use up spaces for the characters you store.it will not reserve storage like char or nchar.
*nchar and nvarchar will take up twice as much storage space,so it may be wise to use them only if you need unicode support.

nchar
this is same as char data type but the character set will of the national character set.ex:native nchar(10);the above declaration statement declaires the variable
native of nchar data type with the maximum size of 10.the length of this variable depends upon the(number of lengths) per byte as defined in the character set.this 
charcter set can be define for the session using NLS_PARAMETERS.the character set can be either UTF16 or UTF8.the size restriction is 1-2000 byte.

nvarchar2
this data type is same as varchar2 data type but the character set will of the national character set.ex:native nvarchar2(10):='rajesh'; the above declaration the 
variable with the maximum size of 10.this character set can be defined for the set session using NLS_PARAMETERS.the character set can be UTF8 or UTF16.the size 
restriction is 1-4000 bytes.

long and longraw
this data type used to store large text or raw data up to maximum size of 2GB.ex:Large_text LONG;large_raw LONG RAW;it is not recommented for oracle.instead of this
use LOB.this is mainly used for data dictionary.LONG data type is used to store character set data,while LONG RAW is used for store binary formate.LONG RAW data type
accecpts media object,images,ect.,but LONG works only on data that can be stored using character set.

number data type
this data type stores fixed or floating point numbers up to 38 digits of precision.the variable can be declared either with precision and decimal details or without
this information.ex:a number(8,2) this mean a allow 8 digit precision and 2 decimal digits.so that 2 decimal and 6 for integer number.ex:b number(8) it allows 8 
precision and no decimal digits.ex:c number() in this no restriction of no of digit precision.so it allows maximim of 38 digits.

BOOLEAN data type
the value of this data type does not need enclose of quotes.ex:var BOOLEAN;

DATE data type
this data type stores the values in date format,as date,month,and year.Whenever a variable is defined with DATE data type along with the date it can hold time 
information and by default time information is set to 12:00:00 if not specified.values need to enclose within quotes while assigning for this data type.the standard
Oracle date formate for input and output is 'DD-MMM-YYYY' and it again set at NLS_PARAMETERS(NLS_DATE_FORMATE) at the session level.ex:d DATE:='01-JAN-2018';da 
DATE:= SYSDATE;although these both variable holds the time information.

LOB data type
this data type mainly used to store and manipulate large blocks of unstructured data's like images,multimedia files,etc.,It is more flexible then the LONG data type.
advantages of LOB:
*the number of column in a table with LONG data type is limited to 1, whereas a table has no restriction on a number of columns with LOB data type.
*the data interface tool accepts LOB data type of a table during data replication,but it omits LONG column of the table.these LONG column need to be replicate 
manualy.
*LOB can store up to 128TB.
*Oracle is constantly improved the LOB data type in each of these releases according to the modern requirement,whereas LONG data type is constant and not getting many
updates.
different type of LOB
*BLOB(4GB)
*CLOB(4GB) and NCLOB(4GB)
*BFILE(maximum 4GB)
